pages/testing/how-to-write-test.mdx, before:





## How to Write End-to-End Tests using playwright

> References:
> 1. [Official doc on generating test](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen#recording-a-test)
> 2. [Official video on generating test](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LM4yqrOzmFE)
> 3. [Best Practices](https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices)


### Overview

- 1. **_E2E Test Folders structure_**

   ```
   e2e
   ├── constants    # constants used in tests
   ├── reports      # reports generated by playwright
   ├── results      # Folder for test artifacts such as screenshots, videos, traces, etc.
   ├── setup        # global and login setup file
   └──  **.spec.js  # all test files 

   ```

- 2. **_Script used_**

   ```json filename="package.json"
   "e2e:headless": "playwright test ",
   "e2e": "playwright test --ui",
   "e2e:gen": "playwright codegen --load-storage=e2e/.auth/user.json http://localhost:4001 "
   ```

   e2e : Run the test with playwright UI.\
   e2e:headless : Run the test without playwright UI. \
   e2e:gen: Opens the browser with storageState(with auth) to record the test
   and  


### Setup Auth
- 1. **_Credentials setup_**  
   By default playwright will open the browser in incognito mode each time you
   run the test or generate the test your auth state will be lost. To overcome
   that create a file `user.js in e2e/constants folder` and add your email and password in
   that in below format
   ```js filename="e2e/constants/user.js"
   const USER = {
       email: "/* your email */"
       password: "/* your password */"
   }
   ```
   after that run below command
   ```bash
   npm run e2e
   ```
   this will open the playwright ui, close it. This process will store your
   login state in e2e/.auth/user.json file. so that you don't have to login again and again.


## Generating tests

### Method 1(VS Code)

Install the VS Code extension and generate tests directly from VS Code. The
extension is available on the
[VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-playwright.playwright).
Check out Official guide on
[getting started with VS Code](https://playwright.dev/docs/getting-started-vscode).

To record a test click on the **Record new** button from the Testing sidebar.
This will create a `test-1.spec.js` file as well as open up a browser window.

<img
  width="1385"
  alt="record new in vs code"
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13063165/220961665-615d0ab8-3f0b-439c-ad0b-0424d9aa154b.png"
/>

  Caveats: It doesn't directly open the localhost url, so you have to manually
  type the localhost url in the browser.

In the browser go to the URL you wish to test and start clicking around to
record your user actions.

![generating user actions](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/1d4c8f37-8325-4816-a665-d0e95e63f509)

Playwright will record your actions and generate the test code directly in VS
Code. You can also generate assertions by choosing one of the icons in the
toolbar and then clicking on an element on the page to assert against. The
following assertions can be generated:

- `'assert visibility'` to assert that an element is visible
- `'assert text'` to assert that an element contains specific text
- `'assert value'` to assert that an element has a specific value

![generating assertions](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/d131eb35-b2ca-4bf4-a8ac-88b6e40dcf07)

Once you are done recording click the **cancel** button or close the browser
window. You can then inspect your `test-1.spec.js` file and manually rename and
improve it if needed.

![code from a generated test](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/2ba4c212-4713-460a-b054-6dc6b67a9a7c)

### Method 2(Command Line)

When running the playwright codegen command two windows will be opened, a
browser window where you interact with the website you wish to test and the
Playwright Inspector window where you can record your tests and then copy them
into your editor.

  Make sure that dev/prod server is running before running the codegen command.

```bash filename="codegen command"
 npm run e2e:gen
```

### Recording a test

Run the above command and perform actions in the browser window. Playwright will
generate the code for the user interactions which you can see in the Playwright
Inspector window. Once you have finished recording your test stop the recording
and press the **copy** button to copy your generated test into your editor.

With the test generator you can record:

- Actions like click or fill by simply interacting with the page
- Assertions by clicking on one of the icons in the toolbar and then clicking on
  an element on the page to assert against. You can choose:
  - `'assert visibility'` to assert that an element is visible
  - `'assert text'` to assert that an element contains specific text
  - `'assert value'` to assert that an element has a specific value

######

![Recording a test](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/34a79ea1-639e-4cb3-8115-bfdc78e3d34d)

Commit message:

fix: callout vercel deploy fix

pages/testing/how-to-write-test.mdx, after:




import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

## How to Write End-to-End Tests using playwright

> References:
> 1. [Official doc on generating test](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen#recording-a-test)
> 2. [Official video on generating test](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LM4yqrOzmFE)
> 3. [Best Practices](https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices)


### Overview

- 1. **_E2E Test Folders structure_**

   ```
   e2e
   ├── constants    # constants used in tests
   ├── reports      # reports generated by playwright
   ├── results      # Folder for test artifacts such as screenshots, videos, traces, etc.
   ├── setup        # global and login setup file
   └──  **.spec.js  # all test files 

   ```

- 2. **_Script used_**

   ```json filename="package.json"
   "e2e:headless": "playwright test ",
   "e2e": "playwright test --ui",
   "e2e:gen": "playwright codegen --load-storage=e2e/.auth/user.json http://localhost:4001 "
   ```

   e2e : Run the test with playwright UI.\
   e2e:headless : Run the test without playwright UI. \
   e2e:gen: Opens the browser with storageState(with auth) to record the test
   and  


### Setup Auth
- 1. **_Credentials setup_**  
   By default playwright will open the browser in incognito mode each time you
   run the test or generate the test your auth state will be lost. To overcome
   that create a file `user.js in e2e/constants folder` and add your email and password in
   that in below format
   ```js filename="e2e/constants/user.js"
   const USER = {
       email: "/* your email */"
       password: "/* your password */"
   }
   ```
   after that run below command
   ```bash
   npm run e2e
   ```
   this will open the playwright ui, close it. This process will store your
   login state in e2e/.auth/user.json file. so that you don't have to login again and again.


## Generating tests

### Method 1(VS Code)

Install the VS Code extension and generate tests directly from VS Code. The
extension is available on the
[VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-playwright.playwright).
Check out Official guide on
[getting started with VS Code](https://playwright.dev/docs/getting-started-vscode).

To record a test click on the **Record new** button from the Testing sidebar.
This will create a `test-1.spec.js` file as well as open up a browser window.

<img
  width="1385"
  alt="record new in vs code"
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13063165/220961665-615d0ab8-3f0b-439c-ad0b-0424d9aa154b.png"
/>

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  Caveats: It doesn't directly open the localhost url, you have to manually
  type the localhost url in the browser.
</Callout>

In the browser go to the URL you wish to test and start clicking around to
record your user actions.

![generating user actions](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/1d4c8f37-8325-4816-a665-d0e95e63f509)

Playwright will record your actions and generate the test code directly in VS
Code. You can also generate assertions by choosing one of the icons in the
toolbar and then clicking on an element on the page to assert against. The
following assertions can be generated:

- `'assert visibility'` to assert that an element is visible
- `'assert text'` to assert that an element contains specific text
- `'assert value'` to assert that an element has a specific value

![generating assertions](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/d131eb35-b2ca-4bf4-a8ac-88b6e40dcf07)

Once you are done recording click the **cancel** button or close the browser
window. You can then inspect your `test-1.spec.js` file and manually rename and
improve it if needed.

![code from a generated test](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/2ba4c212-4713-460a-b054-6dc6b67a9a7c)

### Method 2(Command Line)

When running the playwright codegen command two windows will be opened, a
browser window where you interact with the website you wish to test and the
Playwright Inspector window where you can record your tests and then copy them
into your editor.

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">
  Make sure that dev/prod server is running before running the codegen command.
</Callout>

```bash filename="codegen command"
npm run e2e:gen
```

### Recording a test

Run the above command and perform actions in the browser window. Playwright will
generate the code for the user interactions which you can see in the Playwright
Inspector window. Once you have finished recording your test stop the recording
and press the **copy** button to copy your generated test into your editor.

With the test generator you can record:

- Actions like click or fill by simply interacting with the page
- Assertions by clicking on one of the icons in the toolbar and then clicking on
  an element on the page to assert against. You can choose:
  - `'assert visibility'` to assert that an element is visible
  - `'assert text'` to assert that an element contains specific text
  - `'assert value'` to assert that an element has a specific value

######

![Recording a test](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/assets/13063165/34a79ea1-639e-4cb3-8115-bfdc78e3d34d)
